OzCHI 2022's theme is **connected creativity**. To emphasise this we have a
_Creativity_ track featuring works from community related to creative computing,
games, interactive art, music and more. This year's creativity chair is [Ben
Swift](https://benswift.me).

The creativity track has two parts, both in-person: the *gig* (a live event on
Thursday night Dec 1) and the *room* (an installation space which will be open
throughout the conference). Submissions for each are curated and selected by the
conference organisers.

Creativity submissions may be related to submissions in another track, or they
may be standalone.

## The *gig* (Algorave)

These days just about all electronic music is made using computers, but with
artificial barriers between the people creating the software algorithms and the
people making the music. Using systems built for creating algorithmic music and
visuals, such as [Pd/puredata](https://puredata.info),
[Max/MSP](http://cycling74.com/products/max/),
[SuperCollider](https://supercollider.github.io),
[Extempore](https://extemporelang.github.io),
[TidalCycles](https://tidalcycles.org), [Gibber](https://gibber.cc), [Sonic
Pi](https://sonic-pi.net), [FoxDot](https://foxdot.org),
[hydra](https://hydra.ojack.xyz), [p5.js](https://www.teddavis.org/p5live/),
[Cyril](http://cyrilcode.com) and [more](https://toplap.org), these barriers are
broken down, and musicians are able to compose and work live with their music as
algorithms. This has good and bad sides, but a different approach leads to
interesting places.

This is no new idea, but [Algoraves](https://algorave.com) focus on humans
making and dancing to music. Algorave musicians don’t pretend their software is
being creative, they take responsibility for the music they make, shaping it
using whatever means they have. More importantly the focus is not on what the
musician is doing, but on the music, and people dancing to it. Algoraves embrace
the alien sounds of raves from the past, and introduce alien, futuristic rhythms
and beats made through strange, algorithm-aided processes. It’s up to the good
people on the dancefloor to help the musicians make sense of this and do the
real creative work in making a great party.

The details for the gig are:

- **Date**: Thursday Dec 1
- **Time**: 7:30pm--10:00pm (doors at 7pm)
- **Venue**: [Main Hall, **Ainslie** Arts
  Centre](https://ainslieandgorman.com.au/venue-hire/weddings/ainslie-main-hall/)
- **Cost**: $25/$15 concession

**Tickets available now** through
[Eventbrite](https://www.eventbrite.com.au/e/connected-creativity-algorave-tickets-452218446547).

### Line-up
