# Title goes here

This performance is a musical improvisation on top of a soundscape generated
using the System of a Down installation. The System of a Down installation was
developed as a collaboration between Rodolfo Ocampo, Oliver Bown, Uncanny Valley
and the School of Cybernetics to showcase the interconnectedness of human,
technological and environmental systems by turning Earth’s data into a
generative soundscape.

The installation ingests data from Earth’s complex systems, including CO2
levels, weather, economic indicators, and passes it as prompts to GPT-3 for it
to generate descriptions of the data. Via a semantic similarity computation,
these descriptions are then matched to sounds in a sound library that was tagged
by people describing each sound. Therefore, the soundscape is intended to ‘feel’
like the data, by semantically matching AI generated data descriptions of data
to human generated descriptions of sounds.

Rodolfo uses this soundscape as a base for a real time musical improvisation
that can be understood as a way to jam with Earth’s data. Throughout history,
humans have related to the Earth through stories and music. In a time where we
increasingly relate to the world through data, this performance is a playful
exploration that repurposes data technologies to relate to these systems in a
less rational, more emotional and improvisational way through music, assuming
oneself very as part of nature’s orchestra.

## Bio

Rodolfo Ocampo is a creative technologist from Mexico City, based in Sydney. He
is completing a PhD at UNSW School of Art and Design, researching how
interaction design can enable effective human-AI creative collaboration. He
originally came to Australia in 2020 to participate in the second cohort at the
3A Institute, now the School of Cybernetics at ANU. Previous to that, he worked
at Google for two years. Additionally he is currently working at CSIRO
developing tools for indigenous rangers to aid in management of Country.

He is interested in the creative intersection between the environment,
technology and people, and how artificial intelligence can enable new creative
possibilities. He recently co-developed an installation with music technology
company Uncanny Valley for the School of Cybernetics Building, which transforms
data from Earth’s complex systems into a soundscape via semantic matching
between data descriptions and sound descriptions. His performance at OzChi uses
this installation soundscape as a base to improvise in real time with keyboards,
guitar and drums.

Recently, he also developed the viral app Narrative Device which enabled people
to write short stories with GTP-3. Previous to that, he developed a nationally
touring art installation in Mexico that repurposed face recognition technologies
to protest the war on drugs. He works as an independent consultant and developer
for creative projects that involve interactions between people, technology and
the environment.

## Tech rider

- Monitors to connect my audio interface to
- If you have a MIDI keyboard so that I don't have to carry mine that'd be great
- Screen display connected via HDMI
